.TH JOSM 1 "July 21, 2016"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.SH NAME
josm \- Java OpenStreetMap Editor
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B josm-latest
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B JOSM 
is an editor for OpenStreetMap written in Java 8. 
.PP
.B OpenStreetMap 
is a project aimed squarely at creating and providing free geographic data such as street maps to anyone
who wants them. It allows you to view, edit and use geographical data in a collaborative way from 
anywhere on earth.
The project was started because most maps you think of as free actually have legal or technical 
restrictions on their use, holding back people from using them in creative, productive or unexpected
ways.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h, \-?, \-\-help
Show help
.TP
.B \-\-geometry=<width>x<height>(+|-)x(+|-)y
Standard X geometry argument
.TP
.B [\-\-download=]minlat,minlon,maxlat,maxlon
Download the bounding box
.TP
.B [\-\-download=]<url>
Download the location at the url (with lat=x&lon=y&zoom=z)
.TP
.B [\-\-download=]<filename>
Open file (any file type that can be opened with File/Open)
.TP
.B \-\-downloadgps=minlat,minlon,maxlat,maxlon
Download the bounding box as raw gps
.TP
.B \-\-selection=<searchstring>
Select with the given search
.TP
.B \-\-[no\-]maximize
Do [not] launch in maximized mode
.TP
.B \-\-reset\-preferences
Reset the preferences to the default
.TP
.B \-\-load\-preferences=<url\-to\-xml>
Change preferences according to the XML file
.TP
.B \-\-set=<key>=<value>
Set preference key to value
.TP
.B \-\-language=<language>
Set the language
.TP
.B \-\-version
Display the JOSM version
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Print debugging messages to console
.TP
.B \-\-offline=<OSM_API|JOSM_WEBSITE|CACHE_UPDATES|CERTIFICATES|ALL>
Disable access to the given resource(s), separated by comma
.SH FILES
JOSM files are saved according to the XDG Base Directory Specification:
.TP
.B $HOME/.config/JOSM-latest
Preferences
.TP
.B $HOME/.local/share/JOSM-latest
User data
.TP
.B $HOME/.cache/JOSM-latest
Cache
.TP
If the directory $HOME/.josm-latest exists, all files are stored there.
.SH JAVA PROPERTIES
The following options can be set by using Java system properties (i.e. \-Dkey=value
passed to java, or specified inside JAVA_OPTS).
.TP
.B josm.pref=<path>
Set the JOSM preferences directory.
.TP
.B josm.userdata=<path>
Set the JOSM user data directory.
.TP
.B josm.cache=<path>
Set the JOSM cache directory.
.TP
.B josm.home=<homedir>
Relocate all 3 directories to homedir. Cache directory will be in <homedir>/cache.
.TP
.B josm.name=<JOSM-latest>
Change the JOSM directory name.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.IP JAVA_HOME
Specify an alternate Java environment.
.IP JAVA_OPTS
Specify Java options.
For example, to use a HTTP proxy server with this program, set this environment variable
to something like
.I JAVA_OPTS="-Dhttp.proxyHost=yourProxyURL"
before starting josm.
.SH AUTHOR
JOSM was originally designed and coded by Immanuel Scholz,
and is now maintained by the OpenStreetMap community.
.PP
The current JOSM maintainer is Dirk Stöcker.
A lot of administration work is done by Paul Hartmann and Vincent Privat.
.PP
Major code contributions from (in alphabetical order):
.PP
Stefan Breunig
David Earl
Gabriel Ebner
Dave Hansen
Paul Hartmann
Karl Guggisberg
Matthias Julius
Alexei Kasatkin
Jiri Klement
Ulf Lamping
Simon Legner
Raphael Mack
Upliner Mikhalych
Vincent Privat
Frederik Ramm
Dirk Stöcker
.PP
Many minor contributions and patches by others; see SVN history
at https://josm.openstreetmap.de/svn/ for details. Use
"josm-dev AT openstreetmap.org" to contact still active authors.
The logo has been designed by Ilya Palikov.
.PP
This manual page was initially written by Andreas Putzo <andreas@putzo.net>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
